An Infinite Loop

 

"And you see now i am lost.I can no longer make out the difference. I don't know if you are real, if this conversation is real, if this whole world is real. I am caught in a loop. An infinite loop."He blurted out in a fit of paranoia. Vinita sounding a bit puzzled, "Well Ajinkya, i know how good you are at telling stories but really this. I mean of all the unbelieveable things in this world that i might have a reason to believe, you are selling me this, some lame, cheap science fiction and that too based on no logic at all. I don't buy it".

He turned his head with an expression that had a tinge of annoyance coupled with someone deeply engrossed in thought. He didn't speak for a minute. His mind was racing through the limitless ways of convincing her of the facts that might seem to defy the logic for a normal person. But he knew it was just a matter of pointing out the right rules of the game, laying down just the right pieces in the jigsaw puzzle that would make her see the picture that he was trying to put up before her.

He added with redoubled strength and confidance in his voice, "Tell me Vinu you are a mechanical engineer. How would you know that a machine is not working properly or it was malfunctioning?" Vinita, "Well you can just feel it you know. There are lots of things that deviate from the normal functioning like the noise it makes, or like ..."

Ajinkya excited, "Exactly, noise it makes, yah that’s the thing. You see any machine that works has to produce some kind of humming or noise or some form of energy that can be used to concieve the proper functioning of that machine, like earth which is continously emmitting seismic waves which scientists are trying to use to predict the earthquakes. Some kind of byproduct disturbance of it's working. Now think of our brain as some kind of machine. Considering this our analogy states it should produce collateral disturbance in the environment. Now is there anything illogical with this? ". Vinita calmmy sipped her iced tea and said,"I guess.NO. i can't possibly have any problem with that " Ajinkya, "Ok then.Consider this.What if you could trap that disturbance and observe the patterns. What if you could just listen to the humming of housands of brains? You could then just like a scientist tabulate the patterns against the state of the mind and when you have an exhaustive database, when you have all the possible states of the mind all you have to do to predict the state of mind is to look for a pattern in the table and viola !! You can predict the brain and in turn you can predict a man's actions. And if you are really good at understanding these patterns radiated from thousands of sources at a time then you can predict the future of all these people and in turn the future of our surrounding of which these people are an integral part." With a cunning smile on her face Vinita retorted, "I know all that stuff. You are right on everything except one thing." He could not hide his impatience "I don't understand, which part?” Vinita "Well the part of trapping the disturbance. How can YOU trap something single handedly what armies of scientists in the world have found frustratingly impossible to trap? How can you succeed at something that thousands of brains with tons of money have failed at?" Ajinkya with a smug smile "well thanks for the compliment. And yah it freaks me out too." Vinita a bit puzzled "What is freaking you out Mr.Incredible?”

Ajinkya,"How so much of money with so much of brains hasn't been of any use at all. But you see these guys are looking for a right question at wrong places. My grandad taught me all these stuff. My dad knew this stuff too but both my parents passed away shortly after I was born. So i lived with my grandparents. And there my grandpa taught me the art of meditation and I was really good at it. As the time passed by i kept on meditating. Now you have to understand what meditation is in a proper sense. Meditation is just a way of…"."If i might take the liberty of interjecting Mr.Incredible, but unfortunately I am not that misinformed about meditation. So you are saying that you can actually see the future?" Ajinkya, "yep. Why you had to make it so hard in the first place". Vinita,"But then what is this infinite loop you were talking about? And how are they formed? And how did you get caught in one of them?"........to be continued